README.md, before:

# StackOverflow data to postgres

This is a quick script to move the Stackoverflow data from the [StackExchange data dump (Sept '14)](https://archive.org/details/stackexchange) to a Postgres SQL database.

Schema hints are taken from [a post on Meta.StackExchange](http://meta.stackexchange.com/questions/2677/database-schema-documentation-for-the-public-data-dump-and-sede) and from [StackExchange Data Explorer](http://data.stackexchange.com).

## Dependencies

 - [`lxml`](http://lxml.de/installation.html)
 - [`psychopg2`](http://initd.org/psycopg/docs/install.html)
 - Python 2.7 compatible

## Usage

 - Create the database `stackoverflow` in your database: `CREATE DATABASE stackoverflow;`
   - You can use a custom database name as well. Make sure to explicitly give
     it while executing the script later.
 - Move the following files to the folder from where the program is executed:
   `Badges.xml`, `Votes.xml`, `Posts.xml`, `Users.xml`, `Tags.xml`.
   - In some old dumps, the cases in the filenames are different.
 - Execute in the current folder (in parallel, if desired):
   - `python load_into_pg.py Badges`
   - `python load_into_pg.py Posts`
   - `python load_into_pg.py Tags` (not present in earliest dumps)
   - `python load_into_pg.py Users`
   - `python load_into_pg.py Votes`
   - `python load_into_pg.py PostLinks`
   - `python load_into_pg.py Comments`
 - Finally, after all the initial tables have been created:
   - `psql stackoverflow < ./sql/final_post.sql`
   - If you used a different database name, make sure to use that instead of
     `stackoverflow` while executing this step.
 - For some additional indexes and tables, you can also execute the the following;
   - `psql stackoverflow < ./sql/optional_post.sql`
   - Again, remember to user the correct database name here, if not `stackoverflow`.
 - Loading All Data at once
   - To load all data at once, including `Post` bodies and `Comment` text, you can use the `load_all.sh` script. Keep in mind this will drop all of your existing tables and re-load the data. 
   - Call it using `./load_all.sh /path/to/xml/files/`

## Caveats and TODOs

 - It prepares some indexes and views which may not be necessary for your analysis.
 - The `Body` field in `Posts` table is NOT populated by default. You have to use `--with-post-body` argument to include it.
 - The `Text` field in `Comments` table is NOT populated by default. You have to use `--with-comment-text` argument to include it.
 - The `EmailHash` field in `Users` table is NOT populated.
 - Some tables (e.g. `PostHistory`) are missing.

### Sept 2011 data dump

 - The `tags.xml` is missing from the data dump. Hence, the `PostTag` and `UserTagQA` tables will be empty after `final_post.sql`.
 - The `ViewCount` in `Posts` is sometimes equal to an `empty` value. It is replaced by `NULL` in those cases.

Commit message:

more updates to load_all.sh - now supports database name option

README.md, after:

# StackOverflow data to postgres

This is a quick script to move the Stackoverflow data from the [StackExchange data dump (Sept '14)](https://archive.org/details/stackexchange) to a Postgres SQL database.

Schema hints are taken from [a post on Meta.StackExchange](http://meta.stackexchange.com/questions/2677/database-schema-documentation-for-the-public-data-dump-and-sede) and from [StackExchange Data Explorer](http://data.stackexchange.com).

## Dependencies

 - [`lxml`](http://lxml.de/installation.html)
 - [`psychopg2`](http://initd.org/psycopg/docs/install.html)
 - Python 2.7 compatible

## Usage

 - Create the database `stackoverflow` in your database: `CREATE DATABASE stackoverflow;`
   - You can use a custom database name as well. Make sure to explicitly give
     it while executing the script later.
 - Move the following files to the folder from where the program is executed:
   `Badges.xml`, `Votes.xml`, `Posts.xml`, `Users.xml`, `Tags.xml`.
   - In some old dumps, the cases in the filenames are different.
 - Execute in the current folder (in parallel, if desired):
   - `python load_into_pg.py Badges`
   - `python load_into_pg.py Posts`
   - `python load_into_pg.py Tags` (not present in earliest dumps)
   - `python load_into_pg.py Users`
   - `python load_into_pg.py Votes`
   - `python load_into_pg.py PostLinks`
   - `python load_into_pg.py Comments`
 - Finally, after all the initial tables have been created:
   - `psql stackoverflow < ./sql/final_post.sql`
   - If you used a different database name, make sure to use that instead of
     `stackoverflow` while executing this step.
 - For some additional indexes and tables, you can also execute the the following;
   - `psql stackoverflow < ./sql/optional_post.sql`
   - Again, remember to user the correct database name here, if not `stackoverflow`.
 - Loading All Data at once
   - To load all data at once, including `Post` bodies and `Comment` text, you can use the `load_all.sh` script. Keep in mind this will drop all of your existing tables and re-load the data. 
   - Use the -t option to specify a directory where the XML files live
   - Use the -d option to specify a database name
   - Example `./load_all.sh -t /path/to/xml/files -d my_database`

## Caveats and TODOs

 - It prepares some indexes and views which may not be necessary for your analysis.
 - The `Body` field in `Posts` table is NOT populated by default. You have to use `--with-post-body` argument to include it.
 - The `Text` field in `Comments` table is NOT populated by default. You have to use `--with-comment-text` argument to include it.
 - The `EmailHash` field in `Users` table is NOT populated.
 - Some tables (e.g. `PostHistory`) are missing.

### Sept 2011 data dump

 - The `tags.xml` is missing from the data dump. Hence, the `PostTag` and `UserTagQA` tables will be empty after `final_post.sql`.
 - The `ViewCount` in `Posts` is sometimes equal to an `empty` value. It is replaced by `NULL` in those cases.
